This article is about darknet websites. For the part of the Internet 
not accessible by traditional web search engines, see Deep web.
The dark web is the World Wide Web content that exists on darknets: 
overlay networks that use the Internet but require specific software, 
configurations, or authorization to access.Through the 
dark web, private computer networks can communicate and conduct 
business anonymously without divulging identifying information, such 
as a user's location. The dark web forms a small part of the deep web,
 the part of the Web not indexed by web search engines, although somet
imes the term deep web is mistakenly used to refer specifically to the 
dark web.
The darknets which constitute the dark web include small, friend-to-friend 
peer-to-peer networks, as well as large, popular networks such as Tor, Freenet,
 I2P, and Riffle operated by public organizations and individuals. Users of the 
dark web refer to the regular web as Clearnet due to its unencrypted nature. The 
Tor dark web or onionland[10] uses the traffic anonymization technique of onion 
routing under the network's top-level domain suffix .onion.
Terminology
Definition
Main article: Darknet
The dark web has often been confused with the deep web, the parts of the web not 
indexed (searchable) by search engines. The term Dark Web first emerged in 2009, 
however, it is unknown when the actual dark web first emerged.[11] Many internet 
users only use the surface web, data that can be accessed by a typical Google browser. 
The dark web forms a small part of the deep web, but requires custom software in order 
to access its content. This confusion dates back to at least 2009.Since then, especially 
in reporting on Silk Road, the two terms have often been conflated, despite recommendations
 that they should be distinguished.
Tor. Software Logo
The Dark Web, also known as Darknet websites, are accessible only through networks such as 
Tor ("The Onion Routing" project) that are created specifically for the Dark Web. Tor browser
 and Tor-accessible sites are widely used among the darknet users and can be identified by
 the domain ".onion".[16] Tor browsers create encrypted entry points and pathways for the
 user, allowing their Dark Web searches and actions to be anonymous.
Identities and locations of darknet users stay anonymous and cannot be tracked due to the 
layered encryption system. The darknet encryption technology routes users' data through a 
large number of intermediate servers, which protects the users' identity and guarantees anonymity. 
The transmitted information can be decrypted only by a subsequent node in the scheme, which leads 
to the exit node. The complicated system makes it almost impossible to reproduce the node path 
and decrypt the information layer by layer. Due to the high level of encryption, websites 
are not able to track geolocation and IP of their users, and users are not able to get this 
information about the host. Thus, communication between darknet users is highly encrypted 
allowing users to talk, blog, and share files confidentially.
